README.md, before:

# 👋 Welcome to Vikas Rajput’s GitHub

### 💼 Senior Java Full Stack Consultant | 🧠 Founder of [Techxplore.io](https://techxplore.io)

**Vikas Rajput** is a highly experienced **Java Full Stack Consultant** with over **11 years of expertise** in building robust, scalable, and secure software solutions. He is the **Founder of TechXplore.io**, a software development company that helps startups and enterprises bring their digital ideas to life.

He has successfully delivered numerous enterprise-grade applications using Java, Spring Boot, Microservices architecture, Docker, and Kubernetes, along with cutting-edge frontend technologies like Angular, React, and Vue.js. Vikas is also well-versed in cloud platforms, including AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

---

## 🛠️ Technical Skills

### 🔹 Backend
- Java 8, Java 11, Java 17
- Spring Boot, Spring REST, Spring Batch, Spring Integration, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Cloud
- Microservices Architecture
- REST APIs
- Keycloak, APIGEE
- Apache Kafka
- Azure Service Bus

### 🔹 Frontend
- React.js, Angular, Vue.js, ExtJS
- JavaScript, jQuery
- HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Material Design

### 🔹 Cloud Platforms
- **AWS**: EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, EKS, ECR, Amazon MQ, ECS, CloudWatch, Code Commit  
- **Azure**: Blob Storage, Service Bus, App Services, AKS, ACR, Azure SQL Server, Azure Data Studio
- **GCP**
  
### 🔹 Databases
- **SQL**: MySQL, Oracle, MS-SQL Server, PostgreSQL  
- **NoSQL**: MongoDB, Elasticsearch

### 🔹 Version Control
- Git, GitHub, Bitbucket, SVN

### 🔹 Testing & Monitoring
- JUnit 5, Mockito, TestContainers
- Postman, JMeter
- Datadog

### 🔹 IDEs
- IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code

---

## 🚀 Professional Highlights

- ✅ 11+ years of experience as a software consultant and architect  
- 🧠 Founder of TechXplore.io – delivering full-cycle software development  
- ☁️ Strong expertise in cloud-native and containerized application development  
- 📊 Delivered scalable systems in fintech, education, travel, and healthcare domains  
- 🔐 Focused on security, performance, CI/CD, and clean coding best practices  

---

Apart from his usual work, he loves contributing to the Java community in the following ways:

- 🔭 &nbsp; He's a JUG Leader @ [Gujarat, Java User Group](https://gujaratjug.org) - An active community of Java Developers within the vibrant state of Gujarat.
- 💬 &nbsp; Love sharing about his experience and challenges as a Software Engineer on Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram, and technical blogs on various popular blogging platforms like [baeldung.com](https://www.baeldung.com/author/vikasrajput) and [freecodecamp.org](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/author/vikasrajputin/).
- 👨‍💻 &nbsp ;Read his full story at [vikasrajput.in](https://www.vikasrajput.in/about-me)
- ⚡ &nbsp; He loves helping fellow developers via [topmate.io](https://topmate.io/vikasrajputin)
- ⚡ &nbsp;For any business inquiry feel free to book 15mins with him [topmate.io](https://topmate.io/vikasrajputin/1281400)

📕 &nbsp;**Vikas Rajput's Latest Blog Posts**
<!-- BLOG-POST-LIST:START -->
- [Build AI Chatbot using Spring AI](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/ai-chatbot-with-spring-react-docker/)
- [Free 350+ Resources to Start Java Web Development Journey](https://vikasrajput.in/free-350-resources-to-start-java-web-development-journey)
- [What is serialVersionUID in Java?](https://vikasrajput.in/what-is-serialversionuid-in-java)
- [Top 10 Eclipse Tips and Tricks for Java Developers in 2022](https://vikasrajput.in/top-10-eclipse-tips-and-tricks-for-java-developers-in-2022)
- [Variable Scopes in JavaScript](https://vikasrajput.in/variable-scopes-in-javascript)
<!-- BLOG-POST-LIST:END -->

🔗 &nbsp;**Connect with Vikas Rajput**
<p align="left">
<a href="https://hashnode.com/vikasrajputin" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/simple-icons@3.0.1/icons/hashnode.svg" alt="gautamkrishnar" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://twitter.com/vikasrajputin" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/twitter.svg" alt="gautamkrishnar" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://linkedin.com/in/vikasrajputin" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/linked-in-alt.svg" alt="gautamkrishnar" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://instagram.com/vikasrajputin" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/instagram.svg" alt="gautamkrishnar" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://stackoverflow.com/users/6462413/vikasrajputin" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/stack-overflow.svg" alt="4214976" height="30" width="40" /></a>

📊 &nbsp;**Recent Contributions**
  
[![Vikas's GitHub](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=vikasrajputin&show_icons=true&theme=radical#gh-dark-mode-only)](https://github.com/anuraghazra/github-readme-stats#gh-dark-mode-only)
  
✨ &nbsp;**GitHub Streak**
  
[![GitHub Streak](http://github-readme-streak-stats.herokuapp.com?user=vikasrajputin&theme=dark)](https://git.io/streak-stats)
  

  <summary><b>🛠️&nbsp;&nbsp;Languages&nbsp;and&nbsp;Tools</b></summary>
  <br/>
  <p align="left"> <a href="https://java.com" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/java/java-icon.svg" alt="java" width="40" height="40"/> </a><a href="https://springframework.io" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/springio/springio-ar21.svg" alt="spring" width="80" height="40"/> </a>  <a href="https://www.docker.com/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/docker/docker-original-wordmark.svg" alt="docker" width="40" height="40"/> </a><a href="https://kubernetes.io" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/kubernetes/kubernetes-icon.svg" alt="kubernetes" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://angular.io" target="_blank"> <img src="https://angular.io/assets/images/logos/angular/angular.svg" alt="angular" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://aws.amazon.com" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/amazonwebservices/amazonwebservices-original-wordmark.svg" alt="aws" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://azure.microsoft.com/en-in/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/microsoft_azure/microsoft_azure-icon.svg" alt="azure" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/css/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/css3/css3-original-wordmark.svg" alt="css3" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.elastic.co" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/elastic/elastic-icon.svg" alt="elasticsearch" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://git-scm.com/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/git-scm/git-scm-icon.svg" alt="git" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.w3.org/html/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/html5/html5-original-wordmark.svg" alt="html5" width="40" height="40"/> </a><a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" alt="javascript" width="40" height="40"/> </a>  <a href="https://www.jenkins.io" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/jenkins/jenkins-icon.svg" alt="jenkins" width="40" height="40"/> </a>  <a href="https://www.elastic.co/kibana" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/elasticco_kibana/elasticco_kibana-icon.svg" alt="kibana" width="40" height="40"/> </a>  <a href="https://www.linux.org/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/linux/linux-original.svg" alt="linux" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.mongodb.com/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/mongodb/mongodb-original-wordmark.svg" alt="mongodb" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.svgrepo.com/show/303229/microsoft-sql-server-logo.svg" alt="mssql" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.mysql.com/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/mysql/mysql-original-wordmark.svg" alt="mysql" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.nginx.com" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/nginx/nginx-original.svg" alt="nginx" width="40" height="40"/> </a>  <a href="https://www.postgresql.org" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/postgresql/postgresql-original-wordmark.svg" alt="postgresql" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://postman.com" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/getpostman/getpostman-icon.svg" alt="postman" width="40" height="40"/> </a> </p>

<img alt='analytics' src='https://profile-counter.glitch.me/vikasrajputin/count.svg' width='0px'>

Commit message:

Revise README for Mukesh Kumar's profile
Updated README to reflect new personal branding and experience.

README.md, after:

# 👋 Welcome to Mukesh Kumar's GitHub

### 💼 Full Stack Developer | 🧠 Building our own business 

**Mukesh Kumar** is a highly experienced **Java Full Stack Development** with over **2+ years of expertise** in building robust, scalable, and secure software solutions.

He has successfully delivered numerous enterprise-grade applications using Java, Spring Boot, Microservices architecture, Docker, and Kubernetes, along with cutting-edge frontend technologies like Angular, React, and Vue.js. Mukesh is also well-versed in cloud platforms, including AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

---

## 🛠️ Technical Skills

### 🔹 Backend
- Java 8, Java 11, Java 17
- Spring Boot, Spring REST, Spring Batch, Spring Integration, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Cloud
- Microservices Architecture
- REST APIs
- Keycloak, APIGEE
- Apache Kafka
- Azure Service Bus

### 🔹 Frontend
- React.js, Angular, Vue.js, ExtJS
- JavaScript, jQuery
- HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Material Design

### 🔹 Cloud Platforms
- **AWS**: EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, EKS, ECR, Amazon MQ, ECS, CloudWatch, Code Commit  
- **Azure**: Blob Storage, Service Bus, App Services, AKS, ACR, Azure SQL Server, Azure Data Studio
- **GCP**
  
### 🔹 Databases
- **SQL**: MySQL, Oracle, MS-SQL Server, PostgreSQL  
- **NoSQL**: MongoDB, Elasticsearch

### 🔹 Version Control
- Git, GitHub, Bitbucket, SVN

### 🔹 Testing & Monitoring
- JUnit 5, Mockito, TestContainers
- Postman, JMeter
- Datadog

### 🔹 IDEs
- IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code

---

## 🚀 Professional Highlights

- ✅ 2+ years of experience as a software developer and architect  
- ☁️ Strong expertise in cloud-native and containerized application development  
- 📊 Delivered scalable systems in fintech, education, travel, and healthcare domains  
- 🔐 Focused on security, performance, CI/CD, and clean coding best practices  

---

Apart from his usual work, he loves contributing to the Java community in the following ways:

🔗 &nbsp;**Connect with Mukesh Kumar**
<p align="left">
<a href="https://hashnode.com/vikasrajputin" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/simple-icons@3.0.1/icons/hashnode.svg" alt="gautamkrishnar" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://twitter.com/vikasrajputin" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/twitter.svg" alt="gautamkrishnar" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://linkedin.com/in/vikasrajputin" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/linked-in-alt.svg" alt="gautamkrishnar" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://instagram.com/vikasrajputin" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/instagram.svg" alt="gautamkrishnar" height="30" width="40" /></a>
<a href="https://stackoverflow.com/users/6462413/vikasrajputin" target="blank"><img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahuldkjain/github-profile-readme-generator/master/src/images/icons/Social/stack-overflow.svg" alt="4214976" height="30" width="40" /></a>

📊 &nbsp;**Recent Contributions**
  
[![Vikas's GitHub](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=vikasrajputin&show_icons=true&theme=radical#gh-dark-mode-only)](https://github.com/anuraghazra/github-readme-stats#gh-dark-mode-only)
  
✨ &nbsp;**GitHub Streak**
  
[![GitHub Streak](http://github-readme-streak-stats.herokuapp.com?user=vikasrajputin&theme=dark)](https://git.io/streak-stats)
  

  <summary><b>🛠️&nbsp;&nbsp;Languages&nbsp;and&nbsp;Tools</b></summary>
  <br/>
  <p align="left"> <a href="https://java.com" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/java/java-icon.svg" alt="java" width="40" height="40"/> </a><a href="https://springframework.io" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/springio/springio-ar21.svg" alt="spring" width="80" height="40"/> </a>  <a href="https://www.docker.com/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/docker/docker-original-wordmark.svg" alt="docker" width="40" height="40"/> </a><a href="https://kubernetes.io" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/kubernetes/kubernetes-icon.svg" alt="kubernetes" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://angular.io" target="_blank"> <img src="https://angular.io/assets/images/logos/angular/angular.svg" alt="angular" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://aws.amazon.com" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/amazonwebservices/amazonwebservices-original-wordmark.svg" alt="aws" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://azure.microsoft.com/en-in/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/microsoft_azure/microsoft_azure-icon.svg" alt="azure" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/css/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/css3/css3-original-wordmark.svg" alt="css3" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.elastic.co" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/elastic/elastic-icon.svg" alt="elasticsearch" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://git-scm.com/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/git-scm/git-scm-icon.svg" alt="git" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.w3.org/html/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/html5/html5-original-wordmark.svg" alt="html5" width="40" height="40"/> </a><a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" alt="javascript" width="40" height="40"/> </a>  <a href="https://www.jenkins.io" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/jenkins/jenkins-icon.svg" alt="jenkins" width="40" height="40"/> </a>  <a href="https://www.elastic.co/kibana" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/elasticco_kibana/elasticco_kibana-icon.svg" alt="kibana" width="40" height="40"/> </a>  <a href="https://www.linux.org/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/linux/linux-original.svg" alt="linux" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.mongodb.com/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/mongodb/mongodb-original-wordmark.svg" alt="mongodb" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.svgrepo.com/show/303229/microsoft-sql-server-logo.svg" alt="mssql" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.mysql.com/" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/mysql/mysql-original-wordmark.svg" alt="mysql" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.nginx.com" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/nginx/nginx-original.svg" alt="nginx" width="40" height="40"/> </a>  <a href="https://www.postgresql.org" target="_blank"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/postgresql/postgresql-original-wordmark.svg" alt="postgresql" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://postman.com" target="_blank"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/getpostman/getpostman-icon.svg" alt="postman" width="40" height="40"/> </a> </p>

<img alt='analytics' src='https://profile-counter.glitch.me/vikasrajputin/count.svg' width='0px'>
